So, what are we looking for
in our competitors, okay?
So I've said you wanna
look at their reach.
I've said you wanna try their offering,
but let's actually dive into it in
a little bit more depth cuz
that's a little bit vague.
So first of all,
look at their features and functionality.
Wow, that's blown your mind, isn't it?
We would never have thought to do that.
But pay particular attention
to certain things.
First of all, what's their core offering?
What's the focus of their app?
Because a lot of apps will have
a lot of functionality, but
there's normally something
that kind of sits at the core.
And what you wanna do is pay particular
attention to the ones that they focus
on promoting the most cuz that
tends to be the heart of their app.
And sometimes you can build a very
similar app to somebody else but
with just a different core focus.
And then you can begin to
differentiate yourself, all right?
So you wanna know what
their core focuses are.
You also wanna know what their unique
features are, what makes their app
different from the other competitors and
potentially from your app as well.
Are those things just nice to have things,
right?
Or are they critical to the experience for
the audience you're trying to reach?
If they're just nice to thing
to have things then really,
they're not in a particularly
strong position.
Because they're relying on the fact that
people want these things enough to be
able to go with them over to a competitor
that doesn't offer those things, right?
So they've got to be pretty essential for
them actually to be a good
competitive advantage.
But the same applies to you, right?
So if you've got a unique
feature in your app, but
if it's just a nice to have feature,
it's probably not gonna be enough to
make people move from competitor to you.
So, it's gotta be something
that's a killer feature.
And then finally, in functionality and
features, look at their integrations.
I mean, this doesn't apply to everything.
It depends on what you're building and
what you're creating.
But oftentimes,
people care quite a lot about how
this works with other things, right?
And that might be if you're creating
something like a no customer relationship
management system, it is absolutely
essential that it works with everything
else that you know where
things are coming in.
If you're creating a task app,
well, maybe less so.
But even so it'd be quite nice if
that syncs with my reminders app, for
my iPhone or it, it worked with notion or
whatever else, so
those kinds of integrations are a thing
that's worth paying attention to.
So you wanna look at
the competitors features and
functionality, you also wanna look
at their user experience, okay?
How easy is the thing to use?
Again, there are three main
areas that I pay attention to.
The first is onboarding.
The first time you get into an app,
what is that first time experience like?
Is the app easy to pick up or
do I need support in order to get into it?
That is absolutely crucial.
Because a lot of apps just kind
of vomit people into the app,
for want of a better word.
And so people use it for five minutes and
go, this doesn't do what I want,
and then they they cancel.
And so there's an opportunity there for
you to give a better
onboarding experience.
Often occurs competitor can have
the same features and functionality but
if that feature and functionality
isn't obvious and easy to use,
you can actually get a competitive
advantage from that.
So oftentimes, you see in the UK at
least you see this with banking.
They do advertising campaigns where
they'll say things like with our app,
you can photograph your check and
not have to go and cash it in in person.
Well, pretty much all UK apps or
banking apps do that, but
some of them make it easier and
more obvious of how to do than others and
they actually use that as
a competitive advantage.
The other thing you've got to be pay
attention to with user experience and
I mentioned this in the product design
course that I run is repeat use.
With most apps, people are using
them again and again and again.
So you're gonna need to use this app
a little while, give it a decent run.
Because what you'll notice is that as
you try and use it for a little while,
there'll be things that
start niggling you and
annoying you that you won't
necessarily notice the first time.
So there'll be certain
actions that you do again and
again in the app that
maybe are a bit difficult.
That's worth noting because those
kinds of things build up over time and
can drive people away to competitors,
especially if the competitor
explicitly says we solve this problem.
And then accessibility is another one.
And I don't just mean accessibility from
the kind of disabled user point of view,
but does it work across different
platforms and different devices.
So it's not unusual, for example,
to find a Mac only app, right?
Well, they're not really a competitor
if I wanna go after the Windows users.
So it can be quite useful to
know from that point of view.
So we've got features and functionality,
we've got user experience.
We also wanna look at market position, how
they position themselves in the market.
So what I mean by that is, who is the
primary audience that they're targeting?
So there might be segments
that they're overlooking
groups of people that they're
not trying to appeal to.
We're not targeting that
maybe you could target, so
you wanna know who their audiences are.
And as we said in the chat room earlier,
you want someone to look at their pricing.
How are they?
What tiers do they have,
what pricing model do they have?
Do they have free trial or
premium options?
All of that you wanna
make a note of as well.
And then finally,
you wanna look at their brand, right?
So this includes their value proposition,
so
specifically kind of how
they present themselves,
what benefits that they provide to their
audiences, what benefits they claim.
The ones that they
highlight in particular.
How is this app helping their users?
That's at the heart of what you're
trying to understand, okay?
So that's market positioning.
You also wanna pay.
There's quite a long list
of things to look for
when you're looking at your competitors.
You also wanna look at their strategy
when it comes to marketing, okay?
So for example,
what's their digital presence like?
What's their website like?
What's their site like?
Do they have lots of landing pages
aimed at different audiences?
How do they go about converting users,
right?
What wording do they use,
what tone of voice do they use,
what tactics do they use?
What content marketing are they doing?
Do understand the kind of keywords
they're using on their blog posts.
Are they targeting certain
audiences in their blog post?
And how are they reaching people through
those kind of content marketing?
So you look at something like HubSpot.
And HubSpot have got a very
aggressive content marketing approach
where they've got specific
keywords that they're going after.
And they go off to them
aggressively through articles and
help guides and that kind of thing.
And then finally,
what are they doing with paid advertising?
Are they using Google ads?
Are they using social media advertising?
So you could dive into it there as well.
Also pay good attention
to the customer feedback.
So what reviews and
ratings are they getting?
Platforms like G2 is
a great example of that,
can provide you with lots of
insights into what clients like and
what they dislike about
the company's solutions.
And give you a sense of whether there
are weaknesses that you can exploit.
And look at their case studies and
testimonials, okay?
Because these will give you an idea
of the kind of use cases that their
application is being used for and
the kind of sectors they're being used in.